Throughout my career I've seen
many successful and many unsuccessful data science initiatives.
Many factors I've seen that lead to successful data science practices are reflected in
a published article from McKinsey about
drivers for successfully scaling data science in the business.
These factors broadly break down into
three categories which they represent as strategic alignment,
putting in place the foundational requirements of data, people,
and infrastructure, and embedding data science and
analytics throughout the company to promote a data-driven culture.
With regard to strategic alignment,
the article recommends first,
obtaining a strong unified commitment from all levels of management,
and second, increasing analytics investments with a focus on the last mile.
Toward building foundational capabilities,
the article recommends developing a clear data strategy with strong data governance,
using sophisticated analytics methodologies,
possessing deep analytics expertise enabled by a tailored talent strategy,
and creating cross-functional, collaborative agile teams.
Finally, in promoting a data-driven culture by embedding analytics through the company,
the authors recommend prioritizing top decision-making processes,
establishing clear decision-making rights and accountability,
and empowering the front lines to make analytics driven decisions.